Welcome to the global e-learning
session on our Performance Management
process, known as Saputo Connect.
Rooted in our Grow in Your Own Way mindset,
Saputo Connect offers a structured process
to help you make meaningful contributions,
measure your progress and keep
your development top of mind.
It consists of three key elements:
setting individual business goals,
creating Individual Development
Plans and engaging in quality
conversations with your one-up leader.
This module - Module 1 - focuses on setting
individual business goals. Ready?
Let's start by defining what a goal is:
A goal is something you want to accomplish.
Why do we set goals?
Here are a few reasons:
Goals give us purpose;
Achieving goals is rewarding;
Goals keep us motivated when
challenges arise; and goals clarify
expectations and priorities.
We set departmental goals at work to
achieve our collective success at Saputo.
We set individual business goals
at work to perform well in our
current role and to align our
efforts and contributions with
business priorities and objectives.
When you set your goals,
make sure they're SMART.
What's a SMART goal?
SMART is a formula for writing goals,
not a goal in itself.
SMART is a formula to write goals precisely
so you'll have a clear path to follow
with specific parameters that help keep
you accountable and on track to succeed.
SMART stands for Specific, Measurable,
Achievable, Relevant, and Timely.
Specific means be precise.
Describe what you will
do to complete the goal;
Identify the resources needed;
Measurable means quantifiable.
Identify the criteria for success;
Use precise numbers, quantities,
hours, percentages, etc.
Achievable means realistic.
Challenge yourself and
aim high, but not too high.
Put a reasonable timeframe in place; and
identify what you may need to succeed.
For example, resources, prep
work, knowledge, skills,
authority, support and so on.
Relevant means meaningful.
...Meaningful to you and to the business.
Clarify how your individual business
goal contributes to department
goals; and connect this goal to
Saputo's Global Strategic Plan.
Timely means Time-bound.
Hold yourself accountable with deadlines
and milestones to track progress.
Assign a target date or dates
to keep accountable.
Now you're ready to set individual
business goals using the SMART formula.
But first...
setting your goals starts with
understanding your department's goals.
If you haven't done so already,
discuss departmental goals with your leader
along with how you will contribute
to the team's success.
Then use the SMART formula to write
your individual business goals.
Let's look at Step 1 more
closely and how it could play out...
Step 1 is to ask your leader
to share departmental goals.
Discuss how those goals connect
to Saputo's global strategic plan.
Determine how you will contribute
to reaching departmental goals
and align with your leader
on your priorities.
During the conversation
you learn that one of the goals
for your department is to... Improve
the overall customer satisfaction
with our ingredients portfolio by
10% by the end of fiscal year.
Now for Step 2.
Considering your departmental goals,
set an individual business goal
for yourself using the SMART
formula to outline details.
Given the example we discussed, where
the departmental goal was: ...Improve
the overall customer satisfaction
with our ingredients portfolio
by 10% by the end of fiscal year...
Let's see an example of our
employee's individual business
goals using the SMART formula:
Set up 3 meetings with 3
long standing customers in Q1 (1 per
month), to assess their level of
satisfaction on a scale of 1-10,
with our product portfolio.
Working closely with John from our
Consumer Insights team for support,
identify at least 2 opportunities
to improve the portfolio and boost
organic growth by 10% (volume),
which will increase business
by the end of Q4.
Present version 1 of my plan to
align with my leader by Q2 (August 8th).
Now, let's check if it is SMART.
It's now time to examine the individual
business goal and decide if it is Specific.
Remember that Specific means Precise.
Let's see what makes this goal specific.
Describe what you will
do to complete the goal;
Identify the resources needed.
"What to do and who to involve
have been covered.
It is Specific!"
Now let's see if it is measurable.
Remember that Measurable means quantifiable.
Let's see what makes this goal measurable.
Precise numbers, quantities,
hours, percentages, etc.
Yes, it is measurable! Enough
quantifiable data is in
place to make it Measurable.
So far so good, but is it Achievable?
Remember that Achievable means Realistic.
Let's see what makes this goal achievable.
Did our employee aim too high or did they?:
Put a reasonable timeframe in place?
Identify what they may need
to succeed like resources,
prep work, knowledge, skills,
authority, support and so on?
The timeframe seems realistic and some
resources have been identified for support.
It is Achievable!
Let's double check if it's Relevant.
Remember that Relevant means
meaningful, to you and to the business.
Let's see what makes this goal relevant.
Contributes to the department's goal
(to improve customer satisfaction);
and connects to Saputo's global
strategy to increase business.
It is connected to the department
goal to improve customer satisfaction
and to the global objective
to strengthen core business.
It is Relevant!
Finally, is it Timely?
More specifically, is it time-bound?
Let's see what makes this goal timely.
Does it: establish clear deadlines?
There are deadlines set and milestones
to track progress. It is Timely!
There you have it!
The goal meets all the
criteria of the SMART formula.
Our employee can now follow
their plan to success!
Now it's your turn...